NAME: Bryan Yang

SCENARIO #2 (Beerz wants to sell data)

Starting from a narrow, specific point of view, I think there are some ethical 
questions involving the Beerz’s leadership. When hiring me, the CTO pitched to 
me that Beerz was dedicated to privacy. Was this the truth? When hiring someone, 
I think there should be as much transparency as possible between both parties. 
The thing that sold me on Beerz was the CTO’s claim that they “protect users’ 
data…and [they] discard it when [they’re] done with it”. Based on the CTO’s 
worried xpression, it seems like her statement was definitely true for her, but 
it doesn’t seem to be true for the CEO. Which points to another issue: the CEO 
and CTO seem to not be on the same page. Obviously, the CTO had opinions about 
the CEO’s direction, but did not say anything during the meeting. I think a major 
part of upholding any sort of ethics is making sure that people feel comfortable 
speaking up about ethics. Multiple perspectives on ethics are not just a 
second-thought feature to increase creativity–it is essential, in order to make 
up for the limited perspective a single human has. It seems Beerz’s isn’t taking 
communication seriously enough. The CEO did not even seem to get the takeaway 
from my presentation. I do not think it is easy to uphold ethics in that environment, 
or even have a conversation about it. Additionally, another ethical question is 
weighing the fact that I love my job and co-workers(mostly) and the fact that the 
CEO’s suggestions seem like a dangerous direction for the company to go. I have to 
make a decision to risk the joy and positivity of my workplace environment. Acting 
ethically may come at a cost for me and other people around me. 

The first obvious stakeholders are the users of Beerz. First and foremost, they 
have the right to transparency. So Beerz must inform customers and clients if 
they follow through with the change in data privacy policy. Beerz also needs 
consent from users to give up their previous data if that part of the meeting 
discussion also becomes a reality. Users have a right to not allow their previous 
data to be sold since that was never part of the initial terms and conditions. 
Users also have the right to say no to the selling of their data(which may mean 
they no longer get to use Beerz). I think from an ethical standpoint, forcing 
users to have to choose between using an app they like and their data being sold 
is not great. However, if more information could be given about how exactly data 
is being anonymized, and what other precautions(if any) would take place, maybe 
I could be a little less worried. In section 1.6 of the  ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct, respecting privacy is highlighted, but selling of data is 
not explicitly frowned upon. Just that anonymization and protection has to be good. 
That said, the overall themes in the document do point to some concern about the 
CEO’s motivations. I think the CEO is definitely not consistent with membership in 
the ACM, in ethical principles, professional responsibilities, or leadership 
principles. 

I think the first thing I would do is talk to the CTO again. She has more 
experience and power within the company so she may be convinced to talk to the 
CEO again and have him reconsider. I don’t think it is the end of the world if 
the CEO says they will go through with selling the data. The drastic thing would 
be to quit. I think staying on board and helping to make sure that anonymization 
and privacy protection are maximized would be more helpful. Helping with the communication with the users about what exactly is happening and being really 
clear about how their data is being sold would be a high priority as well. If 
the CEO becomes more and more money hungry, I think more conversations with the 
other leaders and employees would be good and at that point, it may be good to 
look at job applications. 


